Cornell University School of Hotel Administration
The Scholarly Commons
Articles and Chapters School of Hotel Administration Collection
5-1991
Assessing Customer Contact: Work Sampling in Restaurants
Sheryl E. Kimes
Cornell University, sek6@cornell.edu
Stephen A. Mutkoski
Cornell University, sam29@cornell.edu
Follow this and additional works at: https://scholarship.sha.cornell.edu/articles
Part of the Food and Beverage Management Commons
Recommended Citation
Kimes, S. E., & Mutkoski, S. A. (1991). Assessing customer contact: Work sampling in restaurants
[Electronic version]. Cornell Hotel and Restaurant Administration Quarterly, 32(1), 82-88. Retrieved [insert
date], from Cornell University, School of Hospitality Administration site:
http://scholarship.sha.cornell.edu/articles/457/
This Article or Chapter is brought to you for free and open access by the School of Hotel Administration Collection
at The Scholarly Commons. It has been accepted for inclusion in Articles and Chapters by an authorized
administrator of The Scholarly Commons. For more information, please contact hotellibrary@cornell.edu.
If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an
alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.
View metadata, citation and similar papers at core.ac.uk brought to you by CORE
provided by School of Hotel Administration, Cornell University
Assessing Customer Contact: Work Sampling in Restaurants
Abstract
Customer contact is a crucial element in food service. But how much actual contact do restaurant guests
experience, and how much time do food servers' other tasks require? Here’s a method to use in answering
those questions.
Keywords
customer contact, restaurant industry, efficiency
Disciplines
Food and Beverage Management
Comments
Required Publisher Statement
© Cornell University. Reprinted with permission. All rights reserved.
This article or chapter is available at The Scholarly Commons: https://scholarship.sha.cornell.edu/articles/457
82 THE CORNELL H.R.A. QUARTERLY
/?
Assessing
Customer Contad:
Work Sampling in Restaurants
Customer contact is a crucial element in food service. But how much actual contact do
restaurant guests experience, and how much time do food servers' other tasks require?
Here’s a method to use in answering those questions
by Sheryl E. Kimes
and Stephen A. Mutkoski
SERVERS FULFILL two main
roles in restaurants. One role is to
act as the representative of the
restaurant in making the customer
feel comfortable and satisfied. We
call this the contact role, and it has
also been called the conviviality
dimension of customer service.1
The other role is providing efficient
delivery of food and beverage
items, or the procedural dimension
of service. Depending on the type of
restaurant you operate, the
relative emphasis you place on
these dimensions will vary.
Restaurants placing heavy
emphasis on customer service may
William B. Martin, Quality Service: The
Restaurant Manager’s Bible, Second Edition
(Ithaca: NY, Cornell University School of Hotel
Administration, 1991).
ask their servers to maintain
attentive guest contact, while they
rely on back-of-the-house workers
for help in food and beverage
production. Other restaurants will
place the emphasis on speedy,
efficient service and pay little
attention to the customer.
Because servers have only so
much time, a trade-off must be
made between time spent on guest
contact and service efficiency. If
heavy emphasis is placed on guest
contact, efficiency may suffer, but
the restaurant may see an increase
in average check, tips, and repeat
business. On the other hand, if the
emphasis is placed on efficiency,
the restaurant will be able to turn
tables, but guest satisfaction and
add-on sales may decrease.
One helpful way of considering
this trade-off is by using the matrix
shown in Exhibit 1, which ranks
various restaurant concepts
according to the relative balance
between efficiency, guest contact,
and sales opportunities. An
important point about this matrix
is that any point can be the right
one for a restaurant, depending on
the market. Restaurants define
their niche within that market by
developing a unique mix of guest
contact and efficient service.
Testing the Trade-Off
Despite the trade-off between efficiency
and service, we believe that
restaurateurs may find an oppor-
Sheryl E. Kimes, Ph.D., is an
assistant professor at the Cornell
University School of Hotel Administration,
where Stephen A.
Mutkoski, Ph.D., is the Banfi
Vintners Professor of Wine Education
and Management.
MAY 1991 83
tunity to maintain efficiency and
create an illusion of greater guest
contact—if the relative amount of
guest contact can be determined. In
this article, we present a discussion
of work sampling —a method for
discovering exactly how your
servers are spending their time. To
show how work sampling functions,
we will discuss the results of
a study in which we measured the
relative amount of customer contact
in family restaurants and midscale
restaurants.
Although these two restaurant
types are adjacent on the continuum
in Exhibit 1, we thought
that mid-scale restaurants would
have a greater amount of guest
contact than family-style restaurants
and would be able to charge
correspondingly higher prices. We
hypothesized that family restaurants
would place greater emphasis
on efficiency and increased
table turnover, while mid-scale
restaurants would aim for more
guest contact and add-on sales.
Work sampling. To test our
hypotheses, we used work sampling,
a method developed in
manufacturing to assess the
proportion of time a worker spends
on different activities. Work
sampling has been used in a
variety of situations. It is used in
industrial sales to find out what
percentage of the time sales
representatives actually spend
selling.2 Bankers used work
sampling to determine the amount
of time bank tellers spent on tasks
requiring high skills versus those
requiring little skill.3
To use work sampling, you first
make a complete list of work
activities for your servers and then
devise a plan for observing the
worker. The trick in work sampling
2B.L. Foote, “A Queuing Case Study of Drive-
In Banking,” Interfaces, 63, No. 4, pp. 30-36.
3Noble Hall and Jack Staehle, “The
Industrial Engineer’s Role in Reducing Cost of
Distribution,” Proceedings of the 16th Annual
National Time and Motion Study Clinic, 1953,
pp. 88-92.
EXHIBIT 1
Continuum of restaurant concepts: efficiency, contact, and sales
Production efficiency
High Low
Low High
Customer contact
is that you observe the worker at
selected times, but not constantly.
Since managers rarely have the
time (or the inclination) to watch
their workers constantly, work
sampling can be a handy technique.
If the sampling plan provides
an appropriately representative
sample, you should be able to
get a good idea of the amount of
time your servers spend on different
activities.
The intent of work sampling is
to give managers an idea of how
workers spend their time, but it
should not be used as ammunition
for disciplinary action. If you think
your employees are not spending
their time correctly, make the
changes in the work situation.
Ninety-Minute Minimum
We studied a total of 24 restaurants,
half of them family operations
and half mid-scale. We
observed the restaurants at lunch
and dinner. Our observers studied
two servers at each restaurant for
a minimum of 90 minutes. All
restaurants were located in Ithaca,
Rochester, or Syracuse, New York.
To develop our list of functions,
we divided the server’s job into
eight distinct categories. We kept
the number to eight because work
sampling is most effective when
the categories are relatively few in
number, do not overlap, and
provide enough detail to have
84
informational value. We observed
only the activities on the floor and
did not seek to measure what the
servers were doing when they were
out of sight. Our eight categories
were as follows:
(1) Guest contact: The server was
interacting with the customer.
This category included such activities
as taking orders, delivering
food and drink, and talking.
(2) Walk—Empty: The server was
walking without carrying any
food or beverage items. The
server was on the way to place
an order, to take an order, or to
clear a table.
(3) Walk—Full: The server was
walking and carrying food and
beverage items. That meant he
or she was taking food to a table
or clearing items from a table.
(4) Bus: The server was clearing a
table after guests had departed.
(5) Prepare: The server was
preparing or finishing a food or
beverage item for delivery.
(6) Can't see: The server was off the
floor.
(7) Check: The server was delivering
or processing a customer’s
check.
(8) Rest: The server was taking a
break.
Student observers went anonymously
to each restaurant and
used a form like the one partially
shown in Exhibit 2 to record their
observations of the two servers. We
THE CORNELL H.R.A. QUARTERLY
avoided announcing the time or
purpose of our visits to minimize
the Hawthorne effect, in which
people alter their usual behavior
because they know they are being
watched. The observers noted what
the servers were doing each minute
(but not between minutes). Server
# l ,s activities were checked on the
minute, and Server #2 was noted
on the half-minute. To obtain
realistic results, the observers
recorded their data during peak
operating hours and sat at a table
with a good view of the servers
being studied.
Since observations taken every
minute can hardly be considered
random, we drew a random sample
of observations from each restaurant.
In this way, we attempted to
avoid some of the problems associated
with non-random samples,
while keeping the observation
procedure relatively simple.
Interaction and Outer-Action
The servers in our study interacted
with guests about one-third of the
time, on average. Given that we
observed the restaurants only
during busy periods, we infer that
the proportion of the time spent
with customers is lower than what
we observed. If your restaurant’s
strategy is to increase check
averages with add-on sales or to
raise guest-satisfaction levels,
guest contact that occurs just onethird
of the time may not be sufficient.
Needless to say, servers
cannot spend all of their time talking
to guests because the servers
have side work and other duties,
but if some of that activity could be
transferred to other employees, the
server could have more potential
sales time.
Also of note is the time spent out
of the customer’s sight. Servers in
family restaurants were off the
floor over 40 percent of the time,
and that figure was about 33 percent
in mid-scale restaurants.
While some of this time out of sight
is unavoidable, guests may become
dissatisfied if they cannot contact
their server when they need something.
If servers are responsible for
some food-preparation tasks (e.g.,
setting up salads or desserts), they
will generally be off the floor more
than in restaurants where other
personnel handle such tasks.
Customer interaction and floor
time were the two job categories
that seemed to separate mid-scale
restaurants from family restaurants.
As we expected, servers in
mid-scale restaurants generally
spent more of their time (35 percent)
interacting with customers
than did servers in family restaurants
(just under 29 percent).
Likewise, mid-scale servers were
on the floor somewhat more of the
time than family servers (66 percent
versus 57 percent). The proportion
of time spent on other
activities was essentially the same
in both types of restaurants.
Day Parts
Comparing the individual meal
times at the two restaurants, we
found similar relationships in the
proportion of time spent with customers.
During lunch at the midscale
restaurants, the server spent
more than 32 percent of his or her
time with the customers, while this
percentage in family restaurants
fell to just over 25 percent. Moreover,
the wait staff at mid-scale
restaurants was visible nearly 75
percent of the time, but servers at
family restaurants were on the
floor just 60 percent of the time.
This pattern held at dinner.
Mid-scale servers spent more than
37 percent of their time with
customers during dinner, compared
to just under 31 percent for family
servers. Family-restaurant wait
staff was off the floor nearly 45
percent of the time at dinner,
compared to barely 39 percent of
the time for mid-scale servers.
In both restaurant types, the
servers spent more time with the
customers at dinner but also more
time off the floor.
Server variations. Since we
observed two servers in each restaurant,
we could assess whether
there was much variation in how
they spent their time. In general,
we found that both servers spent a
similar proportion of their time on
the various activities. In some
instances, however, we observed
that one or the other server would
spend a great deal more time
interacting with customers. We’d
like to have found out whether
these servers received better tips.
Developing Your WorkSampling
Study
Here are the seven steps for
creating your own work-sampling
study: (1) define all activities,
(2) design the observation form,
(3) determine the length of the
study, (4) test the form, (5) determine
the sample size and observation
pattern, (6) conduct the
study, and (7) analyze the data.
(1) Define all activities. First,
you must identify the various
activities you wish to study. Make
sure the categories cover all the
possibilities and don’t overlap. Try
to keep the number of categories
small to make it easier to observe
your servers’ behavior.
(2) Design the observation form.
After defining the activities you
wish to study, you need to design
the form you will use to record your
observations. Make it easy to use
and conducive to future analysis.
You may wish to start with the
form shown in Exhibit 2.
(3) Determine the length of the
study. Decide how long a study you
wish to conduct. Since one of your
main objectives is to obtain a
representative sample, you certainly
need to study more than one
day of operation. Spreading your
observations over the period of one
MAY 1991 85
Restaurant________________ Lunch___Dinner
Date____Time_____
EXHIBIT 2
Partial work-sampling form
By noting what the server is doing once each minute, an observer can obtain a sampling of which tasks occupy the server’s
time. The 40 observation points indicated on the above form would not constitute a sufficient sample by themselves, but would
be part of a lengthier study.
week to one month will probably
work best.
(4) Test the form. Before you do
your final study, it’s a good idea to
test your form to see whether it
works the way you want it to. Take
a few hours to try it out. Are the
categories well-defined? Is the form
easy to use? Is it hard to determine
when to record your observation?
You should also decide how you are
going to make your observations.
The easiest way is probably to
record observations over a meal
period that lasts several hours.
You can make your observations
either at some pre-determined
interval or at random. As we mentioned
above, we used a combination
of the two approaches. First,
we took observations at predetermined
intervals and then we
drew at random from those observations.
To draw a random sample,
you should have access to a device
that generates random numbers.
You can get random numbers from
a table, from some calculators, or
from most computer spreadsheets.
If you are not overly concerned
with how accurate your sample is,
you can skip this step and still get
a good idea of what is going on in
your restaurant.
Remember that you must record
exactly what the observed persons
are doing at the designated observation
time. Try not to anticipate
86
actions or record history. Just note
what the servers are actually
doing.
(5) Determine the sample size
and observation pattern. Once you
have finished testing your form,
you can firm up your plans for how
many observations you will take
and how you will ensure that you
obtain a representative sample.
Many books discuss ways to calculate
your sample size.4 As a rule
of thumb, the larger the sample,
the more accurate and representative
it will be. In some cases, 100
4For example, see: R.M. Barnes, Work
Sampling (New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1980);
or Benjamin Niebel, Motion and Time Study
(Homewood, IL: Richard D. Irwin, 1976).
THE CORNELL H.R.A. QUARTERLY
EXHIBIT 3
Work-sampling comparison— mid-scale versus family restaurants
50 __
Guest Wa lk - Wa lk - Bus Prepare Can’t See Check Rest
Contact Empty Full
observations will be adequate, but
you might need close to 1,000 in
other situations.
When you’ve determined the
number of observations needed, set
up a schedule for your observers. If
you will take 300 observations over
10 days, for instance, you will need
to make at least 30 observations
each day. If you follow our methodology
and take a random sample of
minute-by-minute observations,
you will obviously need many more
than 30 observations to create the
pool from which the random
sample will be selected.
Make sure that you spread your
observations over different meal
periods and different days. You
might even decide to conduct
separate studies for lunch and
dinner or for weekends and weekdays.
(6) Conduct the study. If you will
have other persons record the data,
train them on how to use the form.
To minimize the Hawthorne effect,
you will either need to be discreet
about your observations or inform
the employees of the study and
assure them that the information
is not part of a personnel evaluation.
(7) Analyze the data. Your
analysis involves adding up the
observations in each category and
calculating the percentage of time
that each activity occurred.
Making Change
Once you have collected and
analyzed your data, you can decide
whether you want to restructure
your servers’ jobs so that they
spend more (or less) time with
customers or more (or less) time on
the floor. If you decide that your
servers are spending too much time
bussing tables, you might want to
hire more bus help. If you decide
that the servers aren’t turning the
tables fast enough, you may want
to limit customer interaction or
make other changes.
We took our results back to two
of the restaurants we observed,
and discussed the study with the
owners: John Parmelee, of Old Port
Harbour Restaurant, and Michael
Turback, of Turback’s Restaurant,
both in Ithaca, New York, and both
mid-scale restaurants. Neither
restaurateur had seen this type of
study before.
Both were surprised at the
actual percentage of guest-contact
time. The study results were
higher than they expected . The
overall 35-percent average at dinner
was far above Turback’s typical
contact level of 20 percent. While
we thought 20 percent an extremely
low level of guest contact,
it makes sense in view of Turback’s
strategy, which is as follows:
The menu includes a complete
description of each course. Servers
do not recite specials orally, so
order taking is streamlined.
Turback knows each customer will
order a main-course entrée, so the
servers are to concentrate on
selling the extras. Moreover, a
large percentage of the client base
at dinner is business-related. Such
guests are usually looking for
efficient, unobtrusive service.
Parmelee thought the study was
interesting for its capability of
assessing variations among servers.
He was particularly interested
in tracking comparative sales and
tips generated to see whether those
figures correlate with the amount
of guest contact.
Both operators thought a comparison
of their operations to their
competition might give them an
edge in formulating service strategy.
They also were anxious to
investigate the scores for “walk—
empty” and “walk—full,” to measure
efficiency of work habits or
restaurant-design deficiencies.
Both Turback and Parmelee
wanted to evaluate the “can’t see”
category, because the design and
layout of each facility affects
whether guests can see servers.
Turback’s is an elegant farmhouse
converted into a restaurant, so it
has several dining rooms. Old Port
Harbour also comprises a series of
dining rooms, plus an outdoor
terrace overlooking an inlet to one
of New York’s Finger Lakes. (In
good weather, guests may arrive by
boat.) However, both restaurateurs
agreed that staffing and operational
policies also affected this
measurement.
Parmelee, for instance, thought
he would re-examine his lunch
service, during which the can’t-see
MAY 1991 87
EXHIBIT 4
Work-sampling analysis by meal period
that his servers set up their own
desserts during lunch, a procedure
that keeps them off the floor for
some time. To rectify that situation,
he planned to add another
person in the kitchen.
Possibilities
Although work sampling has been
used in many industries, it
apparently has been employed
little in the hospitality industry.
We believe that attention to three
categories from our survey can help
improve your restaurant’s productivity
and customer satisfaction—
namely, guest contact,
walking empty and full, and out of
guest’s sight.
Guest contact. If you want to
position your restaurant as the
service leader in your segment, you
could consciously increase the
servers’ contact with the guests.
When Sizzler repositioned its
family steakhouse restaurants
several years ago, for instance, part
of the change involved increased
customer contact. The chain implemented
“seven-step service,” which
called for servers to return to the
table seven times during the meal.
Sizzler also increased the number
changes were made even though
they would increase labor costs.
Sizzler’s management believed the
change was essential if the chain
was to move out of the low-price
family category and into the midscale
market, where it could
capture more market share. Sales
results showed that management’s
strategy was a good one. By the
fourth quarter of 1987, the chain
reported a 40-percent increase in
revenues over the previous year.5
While the increase in customer
contact was just one of the changes
made (menu and decor were also
altered), that extra service was a
necessary component for the
repositioning to be successful.
Increasing guest contact might
also allow you to increase prices or
check averages. One of the chief
differences we found between
family restaurants and mid-scale
operations is in the amount of
server contact with guests. We
think that a family restaurant
could increase guest contact and
prices at the same time.
Walking on empty. Comparing
5Dolores A. Long, “Thomas L. Gregory,
Sizzler Restaurants,” Restaurant Business,
November 1987, pp. 88-90.
help you pinpoint efficient work
methods. Your servers cannot correct
problems of which they are not
aware. Moreover, improving their
work habits will probably help your
employees earn larger tips.
Out of mind. You should
carefully examine the “cannot see”
category. Since the customer’s
satisfaction is at risk when the
server is out of sight, take a look at
what servers are doing when they
are off the floor. In some cases, you
can pick up additional customercontact
time by streamlining the
trips to the back of the house. Some
operations use buzzers, bells, or
vibrators to let servers know when
their orders are ready for pick-up,
thereby minimizing the time they
are off the floor.
The study in this article gives
you just one example of how work
sampling can be used. Each
position in the front of the house
and the back of the house could be
analyzed with this technique.
Knowing what percentage of time
an employee spends on each
activity can help you ascertain
ways of improving productivity
while maintaining or increasing
customer satisfaction. □
88 THE CORNELL H.R.A. QUARTERLY