David Beriss, David E. Sutton, ed.. The Restaurants Book: Ethnographies of Where
We Eat. Oxford: Berg Publishers, 2007. 256 pp. $29.95, paper, ISBN 978-1-84520-755-7.
Reviewed by Lori Baptista
Published on H-Travel (October, 2008)
Commissioned by Patrick R. Young (University of Massachusetts-Lowell)
From a historical perspective, the rise of the
restaurant is often attributed to a perfect storm of
social, political, and economic conditions that concentrated
people (most notably travelers), money,
and commercial activity in urban hubs. Those
who ate out within a framework of social obligation,
as opposed to those who did so as a commercial
transaction, operated under specific, culturally
defined obligations that often governed how
travelers, strangers, and neighbors were to be
treated. As people began to travel further from
home, and were unable to dine with acquaintances,
eating out was transformed into a commercial
venture. The ethnographic lens of The
Restaurants Book reframes some of the many
types of encounters that take place in restaurants
to account for exchanges and relationships that
play out at different times in particular places.
The project grew out of a 2004 American Anthropological
Association conference call for papers
on “Restaurants,” which elicited a number of
ethnographic accounts of the internal dynamics of
restaurants, as well as restaurants’ relationships
to larger communities, issues, and social concerns.
The Restaurants Book is organized thematically,
suggesting the progression of a meal. It
opens with a “Starter” that prefaces the volume,
and in which editor-collaborators David Beriss
and David E. Sutton share their observations
about the role of restaurants in reflecting the social
and cultural lives of our contemporary world.
Beriss and Sutton convincingly present the case
for restaurants as “total social phenomena,” asserting
that restaurants are highly sensory environments
in which identities are formed and
maintained (p. 3). For these reasons and others,
Beriss and Sutton suggest that contemporary
restaurants are “ideal postmodern institutions”
(p. 1).
It is only fitting that Beriss, an associate professor
and chair of the University of New Orleans
Department of Anthropology, also locates the evolution
of this volume within the temporal context
of the impact of Hurricane Katrina on the New
Orleans restaurant industry--arguably one of the
nation’s most revered foodie tourist destinations.
He notes that “in the months following the disaster,
restaurants became the index of the city’s recovery,
as well as an essential social space in
which New Orleanians, working to rebuild their
communities, sought each other out.... Sharing
emblematic local foods in reopened restaurants
proved to be an essential part of reconnecting
with the city” (p. 2). Beriss argues that in post-Katrina
New Orleans, restaurants seemingly exceeded
their function as business ventures, and embodied
public debates over the future of the city,
the precarious nature of its political leadership,
the fragility of racial and ethnic relations, and
opinions about who should serve as stewards of
local culture.
In the section titled “Small Plates,” three contributing
authors present ethnographic snapshots
that provide a window into the embodied practices,
kinship networks, and regional identifications
that take place behind the scenes in restaurant
settings, and might be invisible to casual diners.
While these are glimpses of the intimate, internal
relations and machinations that take place
within the restaurant, they also connect to larger
social issues. Sociologist Karla Erickson assesses
how interpersonal relationships and exchanges
are influenced by the staging of bodies within the
social world of a Tex-Mex restaurant space. Anthropologist
Michael Hernandez dispels the notion
that food and family have become divorced
from each other, and presents a modified concept
of family structure that a Chinese immigrant
restaurant owner uses to incorporate her employees
into an improvised familial unit. Food studies
scholar Amy Trubek counters a commonly held
perception that modernization and the “era of
global convenience cuisine” will drive regional
American cuisine into one of two directions: elitist
or populist (p. 35). Trubek presents a modern
notion of a “cuisine du terroir, with fidelity to
place and season,” as practiced by Wisconsin chef
Odessa Piper (pp. 35-36).
The “Mains” section continues to build on
these broadly defined themes, touching on social
and historical contexts, and delving more deeply
into the realms of nostalgia, authenticity, memory,
tradition, ethnic identity, and continuity with the
past. Winnie Lem and Gerald Mars critically assess
gendered inequities and divisions of labor
that impact the success of family-run ethnic
restaurants in Paris and northern Italy. In his essay
“Ethnic Succession and the New American
Restaurant Cuisine,” nutrition, food studies, and
public health scholar Krishendu Ray draws attention
to patterns of ethnic succession within the
fine dining segment of the American restaurant
industry. He attends to the ethnically segmented
nature of the restaurant labor force itself, as well
as its relationship with changing tastes.
While immigrant and ethnic cuisines are often
discussed in terms of their commodification
and appeal to tourists’ appetites for the authentic
or the exotic, several essays in this section also
draw attention to local and heritage diners’ engagements
with preserving, maintaining, or representing
their culture to visiting publics as well
as themselves. In addition to his assertions about
the significance of tourism to New Orleans culture
and economy, Beriss posits that New Orleans’ residents
hold restaurateurs accountable for “correctly”
or authentically representing the city’s long
standing local food culture and traditions.
“Tourists might be the motor behind the economy,
but their tastes would not be allowed to define
New Orleans culture” (p. 153).
Similarly, in her study of spectacular restaurant
practices in Russian Jewish New York City,
performance studies scholar Eve Jochnowitz introduces
culinary tourism as a form of exploratory
eating in which locals, out-of-towners, and Russophones
engage. In this instance, the appeal of
the authentic is linked not only to travel to partic‐
H-Net Reviews
2
ular geographic locales, but also back in time. She
asserts, “Most frequently, when we think of
tourism, we are thinking of travel through space,
or in the case of immigrant and ethnic cuisine,
foodways coming to us from another place. In the
Jewish context, culinary tourism is frequently
about travel through time.... The message could
not be more explicit: what is old is real” (p. 119).
For “Dessert,” Sutton offers an anthropological
meditation on tipping. The act of leaving a gratuity
is neither a universal practice, nor central to
the meal or the organizing principles of the institution
of the restaurant itself. In Sutton’s estimation,
tipping functions as a kind of Maussian gift,
a complex material and symbolic manifestation of
social relations.
Within the semiotics of dining, the digestif is
usually a heavy, sometimes dark or bitter, alcoholic
spirit that aids in the digestion of a meal.
Michael Herzfield’s “Postprandial Imaginings”
serve not to sweeten the palate, but to self-reflexively
assess the omissions and “under represented
critical issues” within the text that in his estimation
require some additional chewing over (p.
205). Herzfield calls attention to the under-theorization
of the physical space of the restaurant,
and its implications for both kitchen and dining
room performances. He also cautions readers to
consider the cultural specificity of these ethnographies,
the majority of which were conducted in
American settings. In closing, Herzfield calls for
ethnographic and historical investigations into
the “uses of pace and rhythm [and] temporal
frames of cultural change” (p. 208). I would echo
his prompts, as well as push readers to explicitly
consider each of these ethnographies in relation
to overarching hospitality industry structures and
practices.
Despite its anthropological bent, the volume
does not stop at the level of thick description. This
timely collection of restaurant-based ethnographies
coherently weaves together a number of interdisciplinary
perspectives and theoretical
frameworks that have come to shape the emergent
and diverse scholarly field of food studies. It
soundly and successfully integrates political and
economic analysis with specific cultural and historic
contexts, and addresses many of the dynamic
social processes that influence what, how, and
where foods are being served to discerning diners.
Moreover, the collection offers a rigorous assessment
of what is at stake for those who cook,
serve, and eat out.
n
in such fashion as to
N
of the
that
in
linked
coherently
H-Net Reviews
3
If there is additional discussion of this review, you may access it through the network, at
https://networks.h-net.org/h-travel
Citation: Lori Baptista. Review of Beriss, David; Sutton, David E., ed. The Restaurants Book:
Ethnographies of Where We Eat. H-Travel, H-Net Reviews. October, 2008.
URL: https://www.h-net.org/reviews/showrev.php?id=15677
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-No
Derivative Works 3.0 United States License.
H-Net Reviews
4