The Fox Dining Rooms
Restaurant Review
The prestigious Foxhills Country Club & Resort is located in
Ottershaw, near Chertsey. The estate has an interesting
history having been owned by 18th Century politician Charles
James Fox who lived there with his mistress Elizabeth
Armistead in the 1780s. Fox became the MP for Midhurst aged
just 19 and apparently had a huge appetite for gambling and
the high life; he even survived being shot in his ‘ample
belly’ during a duel in Hyde Park, so was obviously quite a
personality.
Today, Foxhills is owned by the Hayton family, bought some 40
years ago in 1983 by Pam and Ian Hayton, and their son Marc
has been Managing Director since 2010.
This award winning resort boasts a multitude of facilities,
including a championship golf course, health spa, swimming
pools, tennis courts and restaurants. It was the acclaimed
culinary delights of The Fox Dining Rooms that I wanted to
experience for myself; their Winter Menu to be more specific.
On arrival we were invited to have a pre-dinner drink and were
led into the Manor Lounge. We ordered a spicy Bloody Mary and
a Tanqueray gin and tonic, which we enjoyed sitting on comfy
sofas adjacent to the fireplace.
After our aperitifs, we were invited
into the dining room area, which is
stylish and traditional, and has a
fabulous mural depicting elephants and
camels and men on horseback in the
hills of some far-flung exotic eastern
location set in a bygone era.
One thing I noticed immediately when siting at our table was
that there was a decent amount of space between us the other
diners; I resent it when some restaurants find it acceptable
to place their diners cheek by jowl with one another as I
don’t need to hear what Aunt Mabel gave them for Christmas.
The winter menu is not huge, with just 6 starters and 6 main
courses, but I think that is a good thing as you must assume
that the chefs are fully committed and confident with their
offerings.
Having chosen our starters from the menu, some homemade tomato
ciabatta and rosemary focaccia with homemade salted butter and
basil butter was presented to us. All these items were truly
delicious; light, fluffy bread and delightfully salty, soft
and creamy butter.
For starters, we had the choice of Tempura cod cheeks, Stout
glazed king oyster mushroom, Carrot soup, Duck liver parfait,
Beetroot cured salmon, and Chicken leg terrine.
I chose Duck liver parfait with pear chutney, toasted
macadamia with a brioche (£10.50), and my wife chose Beetroot
cured salmon with orange curd, keta, and pickled cucumber
(£9.50). It must be made clear that from the onset my wife and
I agreed to share each course 50:50, so that we’d both get a
decent tasting and that I’d be able to write a full review.
The duck liver parfait was extremely
light in texture, subtle irony-savoury
notes from the liver, balanced superbly
well with the unctuous yet sweet pear
chutney combined with the freshness of
lightly toasted cubes of fresh pear.
The accompanying brioche was warm and
soft and thankfully not too sweet as
brioche can sometimes be. I’m a fan of
macadamia nuts yet don’t get the
opportunity to eat them very often but
I felt that the macadamia crumb didn’t
really do justice to the majesty of macadamia. I think the
tiny pieces got a little bit lost, they added texture, but I
think that this fantastic dish could have been improved if
there were 2 or 3 toasted whole macadamias so as to get the
full flavour of the nut. Perhaps I’m just greedy…
Now onto the Beetroot cured salmon. Firstly, what struck me
when presented with the dish was the incredible colour of the
salmon. I think that I expected the fish to have taken on a
garish purple hue due to the time spent curing with the
beetroot, but this cured salmon was a bright red; its lustre
was quite spectacular, as you can see for yourself from the
image.
The portion of the salmon was generous and was cut quite
thickly. As an aside, I was recently fortunate enough to have
a tour around H. Forman & Sons, the world’s oldest surviving
producer of London Cure smoked salmon based in East London.
Its owner, Lance Forman, gave us tastings of various styles of
his highest quality salmon and taught us what to look for in
quality salmon. You may have read the article in the December
issue of VantagePoint. One of the things was the clear lines
of fat clearly visible in this beetroot cured salmon. Tender,
soft, succulent. What really impressed though was the marriage
of the salmon with the other
inspired elements on the plate.
The delicately pickled cucumber ribbon, the aromatic citrus
sweetness of the orange curd (a first for me), and the
saltiness of the keta salmon roe really enhanced the
luxuriousness of the cured salmon. I savoured every mouthful.
After this impressive start, we were very excited about our
main courses.
I had chosen Stone bass, saffron potato, roasted cauliflower
in a mussel and prawn bisque (£24.50), my wife selected Roast
guinea fowl, squash fondant, spelt and nduja sauce (£26.00).
In addition, we shared a side of Tender stem broccoli with
chimichurri dressing (£5.50).
The stone bass was cooked just
as I’d like with a crispy skin
a n d t h e w h i t e f l e s h f l a k e d
perfectly under light pressure
applied by my fork.
The roasted cauliflower added a nice textured crunch, the
saffron potato was tender and delicate, and the mussels and
small sprigs of samphire added a salty dimension. The bisque
itself was creamy and very flavoursome.
T h e g u i n e a f o w l w a s a n
impressive looking plate of
food, I’m afraid that I don’t
think that my image does it
justice. The guinea fowl was
cooked very well indeed, and was
moist with a lovely, flavoursome
skin. The spelt was cooked in a
r e a l l y i n t e n s e s t o c k , I ’ m
assuming made from the guinea fowl itself, so it worked very
well when combined with the meat.
The squash fondant was a pleasant surprise to me as I often
think that squash can be a little too sweet for my palate, but
this was not the case. It was soft and buttery in texture, but
still maintained a little bite. The nduja sauce was a fitting
accompaniment to the moist breast, but the flavour was
possibly a little light on nduja. The highlight to me was the
croquette which was made with the leg meat of the guinea fowl.
The croquette was seasoned exceptionally well, had a light
game flavour and had a great golden panko breadcrumb textured
coating.
It’s also worth mentioning that the accompanying tender stem
broccoli was very tasty, perfect crunch without being raw, and
had a very intense flavour, although I didn’t register very
much chimichurri dressing taste.
Their wine menu was pretty extensive to cover all tastes but
without being a daunting list, starting with house white Pinot
Grigio £27.50 and house red Merlot for £27.00. We paired the
elegant Ardeche Chardonnay (Maison Louis Latour, France
£43.00) with our starters and Malbec ‘Alpataco’ (Familia
Schroeder, Patagonia, Argentina £40.00) with our main course.
Both gorgeous wines to savour.
After eating the main courses, we were feeling pretty full and
weren’t too sure that we would be able to manage a pudding.
The waiting staff kindly let us take our time and my wife and
I decided that we were capable initially of sharing a pudding,
then concluded that we should take one for the team and order
a dessert each.
The first choice was the Coconut
Panna cotta, pineapple salsa,
granola, lime and raspberry
sorbet (£8.00). After ordering,
I noticed that this dish had the
(VG) vegan mark at the end, so
obviously was not going to be
made from the traditional double
cream and gelatine, so I can
only deduce that it would be made primarily from coconut milk.
The ‘panna cotta’ did indeed have a lovely fragrant, coconut
flavour, but it didn’t have the traditional wobble, and the
texture was not as creamy-smooth as a traditionally made panna
cotta. Despite this, the sweet and tangy pineapple salsa was a
good match for the coconut, and the granola had great flavour
and added an extra texture dimension to this dessert. The
highlight to me though was the lime and raspberry sorbet,
which really was a delight. This added more tang to the plate,
without an acerbic wince.
The second pudding choice was
Peach crème brulée, roasted
peach, stem ginger ice cream
(£8.50). Beautiful vanilla
custard brulée, just as you want
to experience. The grilled
peaches were soft, sweet yet
gently tart, and the stem ginger
ice cream was a truly gorgeous
addition to this dessert. The peach gel also enhanced the
creamy brulée, adding a little sharpness and fruitiness to the
slightly bitter charred sugar brulée topping, so delightful.
Make no mistake, The Fox Dining Rooms is not a cheap place to
eat out, but I guess, with the extra costs that all businesses
in the hospitality sector must endure today, all of a sudden,
these prices are reasonable. Consider the quality of the
ingredients used and the attention to detail and execution of
the cookery, and also the waiting staff who were welcoming,
attentive, but not too in-your-face and not making us feel
like they were sharing our meal or standing over our
shoulders.
Of course, it’s not just the quality and standard of the food
that makes great dining; it’s the whole experience combined;
service, attentiveness of the staff, the welcome, the
ambience, the décor and the comfort.
If you have a special occasion to celebrate sometime soon and
fancy a quality restaurant with charm and a cosy fireplace to
enjoy an aperitif, then I suggest taking the short trip to
Foxhills Dining Rooms; but maybe check the menu for (VG) items
just in case you order something that isn’t what you expect.
For more information, please visit www.foxhills.co.uk.