Understanding Connected Text
John was hungry. He went into Goldstein's and ordered
a pastrami sandwich. It was served to him quickly. He
left the waitress a large tip.
• What is Goldstein's?
• What did John eat?
• Who made the sandwich?
• Who took John's order?
• Who served the sandwich?
• Why did John leave a large tip?
Scripts
• A script is a stereotypical sequence of events in a standard situation.
• Scripts organize the knowledge associated with common events.
• Scripts represent a causal chain of events and states that describe a situation.
• People usually omit many of the parts of the causal chain when telling a story.
(Indeed, a person who doesn't leave out much is considered to be boring!)
• Scripts are essential to story understanding as a means of filling in the details
that are not explicitly mentioned but would normally be inferred.
A simple restaurant script
$RESTAURANT
1. go to a restaurant
2. be seated
3. read menu
4. order food
5. eat food
6. pay for meal
7. leave the restaurant
Each event in a script is called a scene. Each scene may
have its own set of stereotypical subevents.
Understanding a story
John was hungry. He went into Goldstein's and ordered
a pastrami sandwich. It was served to him quickly. He
left the waitress a large tip.
1. go to a restaurant -> John went to Goldstein's.
2. be seated -> John sat down.
3. read menu -> John read a menu.
4. order food -> John ordered a pastrami sandwich.
5. eat food -> John ate the pastrami sandwich.
6. pay for meal -> John paid for the meal and left a tip.
7. leave the restaurant -> John left Goldstein's.
Script Tracks
A script may have several different tracks that represent
variations of the situation.
For example, the restaurant script may have different
tracks for:
• Cafeteria:seat yourself, no waiter or waitress, no tipping
• Fast food: seat yourself, no waiter or waitress, no tipping,
paying occurs after ordering but before eating,
eating may occur inside or outside the
restaurant
• Fancy restaurant: may be several waiters/waitresses,
wine list, more courses
A Subway Script - in Detail
$SUBWAY
1. enter subway station
2. go to turnstile
3. put token in turnstile and go through
4. go to platform
5. wait until train comes
6. enter train and find seat
7. leave train when destination reached
Script Roles
Each script has a cast of characters specified by roles.
For example, $SUBWAY contains the roles:
&PATGRP group of subway riders
&CASHIER cashier
&CONDUCTOR conductor
&DRIVER person driving the train
&SUBORG the subway organization
Props
Each script has a set of associated objects called props.
For example, $SUBWAY contains the props:
&TOKEN subway token
&FARE money paid for a token
&TURNSTILE turnstile
&PLATSEAT seat on a platform
&SUBWAY the train
&SUBWAYCAR one of the cars of the train
&CARSEAT a seat on a car
&STRAP a strap for a patron to grasp
&EXITGATE the gate from the platform leading to
the destination.
Settings
Each script has a list of places where the events take place
which are called settings.
For example, the $SUBWAY has three main settings:
the origin station
the inside of the train car
the destination station
Together, the roles, props, and settings make up the script
variables. The script variables are then instantiated during
script applcation by information found in the story, or by
default values.
Determining what script should be active can be
tricky ...
A classic mistake (by FRUMP, not SAM).
Given the headline:
POPE'S DEATH SHAKES THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE.
The system produced the following summary:
THERE WAS AN EARTHQUAKE IN THE WESTERN
HEMISPHERE.
THE POPE DIED.
Event representations
• Each sentence is processed by ELI which produces a CD
representation for the event.
• The CD representation allows many different sentences to be
mapped to the same concept, reducing the size of the script.
• The script inferences are based on conceptual primitives, so
they don't have to be duplicated.
• Script roles are filled by PPs (picture producers) that belong
to the #animate class.
The patron role &PATGRP can be filled by a PP of the class #person (e.g.,
"John") or #group (e.g., "a group from NY").
The subway organization role &SUBORG can be filled by a PP of the class
#organization.
Another Story
Friday evening a car swerved off Route 69. The vehicle struck a tree. The passenger,
a New Jersey man, was killed. David Hall, 27, was pronounced dead at the scene by
Dr. Dana Blauchard, medical examiner. Frank Miller, 32, of 593 Foxon Rd., the
driver, was taken to Milford Hospital by Flanagan Ambulance. He was treated and
released. No charges were made. Patrolman Robert Onofrio investigated the
accident.
Q1: Was anyone killed?
A1: Yes, David Hall died.
Q2: Was anyone hurt?
A2: Yes, Frank Miller was slightly injured.
Q3: Why was Miller hurt?
A3: Because the automobile hit the tree.
Q4: Did Miller go to the hospital?
A4: Yes, he was in the Milford hospital.
Q5: How did Miller get to the hospital?
A5: The Flanagan Ambulance Company took him to the Milford hospital.
SAM in Action
John went to a restaurant. He ordered a hot dog. The waiter said they didn't have
any. He asked for a hamburger. When the hamburger came it was burnt. He left the
restaurant.
Q1: Did John sit down at the restaurant?
A1: Probably.
Q2: Did John order a hot dog?
A2: Yes.
Q3: Did John eat a hot dog?
A3: No, the waiter told John the management was unable to give it to him.
Q4: What did the waiter serve John?
A4: The waiter served John a hamburger.
Q5: Why didn't John eat the hamburger?
A5: Because the hamburger was overdone.
Q6: Did John pay the check?
A6: No, John was angry because the hamburger was overdone so he left the
restaurant.
SAM: Script Applier Mechanism
STORY
TEXT
STORY
SCRIPT DATA REPRESENTATION
ELI PP MEMORY APPLIER
Using scripts
• Script Instantiation: Deciding which script is being
referred to in a story and bringing it into the system.
1. The Pattern Matcher determines whether the
input conceptualization matches any of the key
patterns in a script.
• Script Application: Applying the script to construct a
causal chain and fill in important details. The script can fill
in gaps or identify the relationships between items.
2. The Predictor sets up predictions that are likely to
follow.
3. The Instantiator merges the current input into the
script.
An example of the script application
process
Sunday morning Enver Hoxha, the Premier of Albania, and Mrs. Hoxha arrived in
Peking at the invitation of Communist China. The Albanian party was welcomed
at Peking Airport by Foreign Minister Huang. Chairman Hua and Mr. Hoxha
discussed economic relations between China and Albania for three hours.
ELI processes the first sentence and produces a CD representation. The CD form
looks something like this:
PTRANS: actor = #GROUP (Enver and Mrs. Hoxha ...)
object = #GROUP (Enver and Mrs. Hoxha ...)
to = (INSIDE (LOC (PEKING)))
time = (Sunday morning)
$INVITATION: INVITER = (Communist China)
INVITEE = nil
INVITOBJ = nil
The Tokenizer
GROUP0 = #GROUP (Enver and Mrs. Hoxha ...)
HUM0 = #PERSON (Mrs. Hoxha ...)
HUM1 = #PERSON (Enver Hoxha, Premier of Albania, ...)
POLIT0 = #POLITY (Peking, China)
POLIT1 = #POLITY (Communist China)
POLIT2 = #POLITY (Albania)
References to PPs are replaced by tokens, and the information
associated with "permanent tokens" (well-known people and
places) is retrieved.
The Script Applier
• The script applier searches its scripts and finds that an invitation
is part of the $VIPVISIT script. $VIPVISIT is activated, and
China is assigned to the script role &INVITER.
• Now SAM expects the context to describe events related to
state visits. SAM checks to see whether the arrival (PTRANS)
fits into the $VIPVISIT script.
• One of the script's predictions is that the invited person will
travel to the destination of the invitation. So SAM integrates the
PTRANS into the $VIPVISIT script and infers that Enver and
Mrs. Hoxha are the invitees.
Sentence #2
The Albanian party was welcomed at Peking Airport by Foreign Minister Huang.
ELI parses this directly into a $VIPWELCOME event since the $VIPVISIT
script is active.
$VIPVISIT: WELCOMER = #PERSON (Foreign Minister Huang)
WELCOMEE = #GROUP (Albanian Party)
(LOC (PROX (PEKING AIRPORT)))
$VIPVISIT predicts that the invitee will arrive at the destination. SAM therefore
infers that the Albanian Party refers to Mr. & Mrs. Hoxha. The word "airport" also
allows SAM to infer that they came by plane.
Sentence #3
Chairman Hua and Mr. Hoxha discussed economic relations between China and
Albania for three hours.
ELI produces the following conceptualization:
Chairman Hua and Mr. Hoxha MTRANS:
MOBJECT = #CONTRACT
TYPE = economy
PARTY = #GROUP (Albania, China)
INST = Chairman Hua and Mr. Hoxha
SPEAK
$VIPVISIT predicts that there should be an object of the visit, so SAM has been
looking for one. The contract is therefore bound to the script variable &INVITOBJ.
The summary
The final story representation has recognized three episodes in
the $VIPVISIT script:
1. an episode in which a VIP travels to Peking.
2. a official-greeting episode at the airport.
3. an official-talks episode.
SAM then produces the following summary:
Premier Enver Hoxha, the Albania government head, and
Chairman Hua Kuo-Feng, the China government head,
discussed Albania/Communist-China economic affairs in Peking,
China two days ago.
Question-answering
SAM can answer some non-trival questions about the story:
Q1: Who went to China?
A1: Premier Enver Hoxha and Mrs. Hoxha
Q2: How did they get to China?
A2: Mrs. Hoxha and Premier Enver Hoxha flew to Communist
China.
Note that "they" is easily recognized as Mr. & Mrs. Hoxha.
"How did they get ..." is answered by searching for the
instrumental role.
Q3: Why did Enver Hoxha go to China?
A3: Because Chairman Hua Kuo-Feng and Mr. Enver Hoxha
wanted to discuss China/Albania economic affairs.
PAM: Plan Applier Mechanism
(Wilensky 1978)
Many stories require knowledge about plans and goals in order
to understand how one sentence relates to another.
Examples:
John needed money for a down payment on a house.
He called his sister.
John wanted to become a foreman.
He went to get some arsenic.
John was hungry.
He took out the yellow pages.
He took out some ground beef.
He took out Popular Mechanics (?)
PAM in Action
John wanted money. He got a gun and walked into a liquor store.
He told the owner he wanted some money. The owner gave
John the money and John left.
Q1: Why did John get a gun?
A1: Because John wanted to rob the liquor store.
Q2: Why did John threaten the shopkeeper?
A2: Because John needed to get some money.
Q3: Why did the shopkeeper give John the money?
A3: Because the shopkeeper didn't want to get hurt.
Q4: Why did John leave?
A4: Because John didn't want to get caught.
Different views
Story from John's point of view:
I needed to get some dough. So I got myself this gun, and I
walked down to the liquor store. I told the shopkeeper that if he
didn't let me have the money then I would shoot him. So he
handed it over. Then I left.
Story from the owner's point of view:
I was minding the store when a man entered. He threatened me
with a gun and demanded all the cash receipts. Well, I didn't
want to get hurt, so I gave him the money. Then he escaped.