1
A Guide to Taking Back
Your Business from
Reservation Apps
2
Why Marketplaces Alone Aren’t the Future
How Consumers are Finding Restaurants
Today
Introducing the Omnichannel Approach
How to Transition Customers to Book Direct
The Power of Switching to a Direct
Reservation Platform
•
•
•
•
•
The way people discover restaurants is constantly evolving.
Before the internet, consumers relied on word of mouth, print
ads and the radio to find the new hot spots in town. Then in
the 90s, the world wide web exploded, revolutionizing the way
people searched and discovered businesses.
The restaurant industry, still relying on traditional marketing
and reservation methods, was slower to adapt to the new
digital frontier. Companies like OpenTable and Grubhub
saw an opportunity to bridge the gap by creating consumer
marketplaces and digital solutions for restaurants. These
platforms quickly became a one-stop-shop for restaurant
discovery.
For the last 20 years, restaurants have relied on third-party
marketplaces to drive business, but consumer behavior is
changing. Today, only a small percentage of consumers
actually use marketplace reservation channels like OpenTable
and Resy to find restaurants. Most use social media, Google or
book direct, according to our survey data. This means there’s
only one way to reach and engage the majority — omnichannel
marketing.
What’s Included in This Guide?
The Evolution of Restaurant Discovery
In this guide, we’ll explore the ways restaurant discovery
is changing and how operators can leverage an omnichannel
strategy to drive business and maximize profit.
Click on the desired topic to jump to that page.
3
Why Marketplaces
Alone Aren’t the Future
The days of guests solely using third-party marketplaces to find and book
restaurants are declining — restaurants that don't shift their strategy are at
risk of losing business. Research from thousands of SevenRooms’ restaurant
clients shows that third-party marketplace contribution has reduced from
8% three years ago to 2% today.
4
Consumers are Fleeing Marketplaces in Droves
Nowadays, consumers use multiple channels like social
media, Google, AI (e.g., Alexa and Chat GPT) and influencers
for dining recommendations. Research shows that younger
generations are ditching legacy discovery networks for
social media to find restaurants.
Why Marketplaces Alone Aren’t the Future
Consumers Expect a Personalized Experience
71% of consumers expect businesses to deliver personalized
interactions. Brands that do this successfully earn their
loyalty (and repeat business). But to personalize the guest
experience across channels, restaurants need to leverage
data — which is limited if your customers come from only
one source. The more channels you use, the more data you’ll
collect to better understand who your customers are and
what they want.
Third-Party Apps Drive Revenue Not Profit
Third-party pricing models aren’t cost-effective. They drive
revenue but reduce profit margins by charging restaurants
commissions for each booking. During the pandemic, thirdparty
delivery apps like Grubhub were charging restaurants
as much as 30% in commission for online orders. But
the industry fought back, driving awareness around the
importance for consumers to order direct.
2X more likely for Gen Z to discover
a new restaurant on Instagram
5X more likely for Gen Z to discover
a new restaurant on TikTok
39% of Gen Z has tried a new restaurant
solely because of an influencer
FYI: Restaurants aren’t alone in their fight against third-party commissions. Hotels have accused sites like Expedia and Priceline of
monopolizing the travel industry and are tired of paying commissions as high as 15% to 20% per booking. To take back market share,
hotels are now leveraging their own direct booking platforms and diversifying their marketing strategy.
5
Why Marketplaces Alone Aren’t the Future
Guest Loyalty is More Important Than Ever
Since the pandemic, rising costs have forced consumers to
become more financially cautious, opting for ways to save
money and get the most bang for their buck. A recent survey
from PYMNTS found that 43% of consumers would be more
inclined to purchase from restaurants if they had a loyalty
program.
More restaurants are launching and expanding loyalty
programs to provide additional value and ensure their
best customers keep coming back. But venues relying on
marketplaces are forced to fight harder for business.
Third-party apps compete for your customers.
They often charge you for covers
They own your guest data
They limit opportunities to build direct guest
relationships
They dilute your brand by co-marketing their own
They promote other restaurants and their own
loyalty programs
•
•
•
•
•
6
How Was Your Experience?
Competitors on the marketplace
the diner might enjoy
Why Marketplaces Alone Aren’t the Future
Your Reservation is Confirmed
Register on marketplace
to earn rewards points
Convert to a Paid Cover
Convert from free (direct) to a
paid cover on the marketplace
How Third-Party Apps Compete for Your Guests' Loyalty
7
So where should restaurants spend their marketing dollars if marketplace-only strategies leave money on the table?
We asked consumers which platforms they use to find a new restaurant. Nearly two-thirds of diners hear about or discover
new restaurants from friends, family and co-workers, followed by 33% using Google, and 29% searching social media for
restaurant profiles. Only a small percentage use third-party platforms such as OpenTable (9%) and Resy (3%).
How Consumers Find Restaurants Today
Why Marketplaces Alone Aren’t the Future
PRO TIP
Add Reserve with Google to your business listing to increase
online visibility and drive bookings from more channels.
Research was commissioned through Censuswide, polling 2,003
individuals between March 14-17, 2023. Figures have been weighted
and are representative of all US adults (aged 16+).
OpenTable Yelp Google
40%
30%
20%
10%
3%
9%
13%
29%
22%
33%
Resy TripAdvisor Restaurant
Publications
Social Media
Influencer
Social Media
Channels
Friends, Family
& Coworkers
50%
60%
9% 15%
61%
8
Introducing the
Omnichannel Strategy
The key to succeeding in 2023 and beyond is to diversify your marketing
strategy. Restaurants need to shift from a single-channel to an omnichannel
approach. An omnichannel marketing strategy ensures your restaurant shows
up in all the places your customers look when they’re searching for somewhere
to eat, but it also unifies the customer experience across every channel.
In contrast, a single-channel approach, like a marketplace, forces restaurants to
rely on one source, limiting their online presence and perpetuating dependency.
9
Introducing the Omnichannel Strategy
Benefits of Omnichannel
Marketing
LOYALTY MEMBER
Creates an integrated, consistent guest experience
Leverages organic, free channels
Gives you ownership of your online brand
Generates awareness in more places
Improves customer retention and loyalty
Drives more revenue and maximizes profit
Collects more guest data
Helps you discover which channels drive the most
business
NUTS VISITS: 6
10
The internet offers infinite ways for your potential customers
to browse, engage and absorb content. If you want your
restaurant to be seen and heard, you have to expand and
integrate into other channels.
For example, a guest may come across your restaurant’s
Google listing, then see a Facebook ad, and later decide to
visit your website. Everything from your brand, messaging,
voice and tone should be consistent across every channel.
Consistency builds trust and loyalty. Let’s dive into the
various ways your restaurant can create a cohesive
experience in an omnichannel strategy.
Exploring Omnichannel
Introducing the Omnichannel Strategy
Owned Reservations, Waitlist & Ordering Channels
Search & Social Channels
Paid Channels
Your Restaurant
11
Organic Search
As the world’s largest search engine, Google is visited
roughly 88 billion times per month. And thanks to features
like Google Maps and “near me” listings, there are 6.2
million searches a month specifically for restaurants.
If you haven’t optimized your restaurant on Google, we
suggest you do.
“Near Me” Feature
The “near me” feature (e.g., Italian restaurants near me) is
a popular and convenient way consumers find restaurants
on Google. It will localize recommendations for a variety
of search terms based on where the searcher lives. But in
order for Google to include you on its results list, you must
claim and optimize your Google My Business Listing.
Another important Google feature is Reserve with Google,
which allows your guests to easily book your restaurant
directly through Google Search and Google Maps. It’s free
and easy to implement.
Integrating with Google
Introducing the Omnichannel Strategy
PRO TIP
To help with local SEO, ensure all the information you add
to your Google profile is consistent with other channels
your guests use to find and book your restaurant.
12
Paid Google Ads
If you have the budget, Google Ads is another viable
source for generating business from the world’s largest
search engine. In fact, 63% of people are more likely to
click on a Google Ad than any other search engine. There
are two types of Google Ads a restaurant should consider.
Google Search Ads appear on Google when a searcher
types in a certain keyword or restaurant name. Even if your
restaurant appears at the top of Google for an organic
keyword like “best Italian restaurants in Manhattan,”
competitors and third-party marketplaces are also ranking
and bidding for these phrases. Google Ads can help you
stand out from the crowd.
Google Display Network ads are text or image ads that are
displayed when the searcher is browsing different places
on the internet (websites, YouTube, Gmail, apps, etc.).
Display Ads are a great fit for long-term sales goals like
advertising a new restaurant opening or raising awareness
for a new lunch offering.
Integrating with Google
Introducing the Omnichannel Strategy
FYI: Marketplaces have been known to compete with restaurants
on their own branded search terms. Not only does this dilute the
restaurant’s brand, but the restaurant risks paying for covers that
could have been booked directly (and for free).
13
We can’t ignore the power platforms like TikTok, Facebook
and Instagram have on the restaurant industry. With the
right strategies in place, you can leverage these channels
to keep your restaurant top of mind and drive new
business (without paying cover fees).
TikTok
Recent MGH research found that 53% of millennials and
38% of people of all ages have visited a restaurant after
seeing it on TikTok. Additionally, 72% of TikTokers have
sought out restaurants because of how delicious a dish
looked. If you haven’t yet jumped on the TikTok trend, we
suggest you do!
Facebook
This “legacy” social platform is a must for restaurants.
72% of Facebook users have chosen a restaurant based
on photos and comments from other Facebook users.
Instagram
Instagram is the reason people whip out their phones
before taking a bite. One in four Instagram users shares
food content, while 38% consume food content. Also,
foodies check Instagram 18 times per day, on average.
Showing Up on Social Media
Introducing the Omnichannel Strategy
45% of people have tried a new
restaurant based on what they’ve
heard about it on social media.
Source: MGH
PRO TIP
Make it easy for your social followers to reserve or order online
from your restaurant by adding a “Reserve Now” button on your
Instagram and Facebook profiles. Be sure to link to your direct
reservation pages.
14
The average person spends two hours and 27 minutes per
day on social media. To reach your existing and potential
customers when they’re online, you need a strong
presence. Paid social ads and influencer endorsements
can help put you in front of the people organic social
posts alone can’t reach.
Influencer Marketing on Social
Gen Z is more apt to trust an influencer’s restaurant
recommendation to try a new, hip spot. Social media
channels like TikTok and Instagram have marketplaces
where you can search for influencers to help you share
your content. But this type of reach can be costly.
According to Influencer Marketing Hub, pricing can vary
anywhere from $5 to $25k+ per post depending upon the
influencer’s following and the social platform.
Introducing the Omnichannel Strategy
Showing Up on Social Media
FYI: This Arizona Foodie has over 162,000 followers on TikTok
and over 63,000 on Facebook. Her video on the “best burritos
for over 50 years” promoting La Castana restaurant generated
over 40,000 views.
15
Paid Social Ad Campaigns
Paid social media ads can help you get in front of your
ideal audience at scale and build a stronger organic
following.
Introducing the Omnichannel Strategy
Showing Up on Social Media
67% of restaurants leverage paid
advertising on social media.
Source: Toast
Paid social ads are a cost-effective way of generating
leads for restaurants. Most platforms operate on a
pay-per-click or pay-per-view model so you only pay
when someone takes action (like clicking your “book
now” button). Set a daily budget. Depending upon your
restaurant location and group size, your budget could
range from $10 to hundreds of dollars a day. Test a few
methods and then invest in what works best for your
business.
PRO TIP
When it comes to social media advertising, add custom
tracking links to your direct reservation and landing pages to
track which social channels are driving the most business.
16
We understand the appeal of third-party marketplaces —
truly, we do. For a long time, they’ve been an important
channel for driving new business to restaurants. While
they can be a part of your strategy, they shouldn’t be the
only strategy.
When Should Restaurants Consider a
Marketplace?
When Shouldn’t Restaurants Use a Marketplace?
Tips for Maximizing Your Marketplace Listing
For restaurants that want to keep marketplaces in the mix, below
are some tips on how to leverage this channel to its full potential.
Optimize Your Listing Profile
Introducing the Omnichannel Strategy
Leveraging Marketplaces
Keep it consistent with your Google My Business profile
Use eye-catching photos of dishes & give them descriptive
names
Create a robust description of your restaurant, ambiance
and food and include your owner’s and chef’s names
Optimize your profile for SEO
Post professional images of your menus, don’t just link
to your website
Include links to your social media channels and website
Actively engage and respond to customer reviews
Update your profile every so often to keep it fresh
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Maximize Your Inventory
Promote your listing to drive leads during the slowest
days and shifts
Reduce or turn off your marketplace inventory on your
busiest days
•
•
Brand new restaurants that haven’t established a
customer base
Restaurants struggling to drum up new business
Busy restaurants with a strong customer following
Restaurants with an established brand and strong
presence on organic channels
17
Follow-Up Email with
Personalized Offer
8
Your website, app, email and SMS communication are all vital touchpoints in an omnichannel strategy. Once a guest finds
your restaurant, these channels are the next step in delivering cohesive and personalized brand experiences that drive
business and boost retention.
The first step is to map your guest journey with all the various touchpoints along the way. Let’s use a potential scenario below.
Introducing the Omnichannel Strategy
Taking Ownership of Your Direct Channels
Google My Business Listing Reservation Widget
Thank You Email
Confirmation Email
Now, think about how each of these touchpoints integrate and connect. How can you make this journey more fluid for your
guests? The path to a successful omnichannel strategy is taking ownership over all of your channels — and it starts with
transitioning your guests to book direct.
1
Dining Experience
Restaurant Website
7
2
6
3 4
7:00 pm
Wine Tasting
5
SMS Text Reminder
18
Discover more ways to optimize your booking
channels to drive profit and turn tables with our
Revenue Management Guide.
Add Book Direct Option on Your
Marketplace Listing
To encourage direct booking behavior, add a note to the
reservation section that states, “if no reservations are
available, visit our website or call.”
Incentivize Direct Bookings While
They’re Dining With You
To create awareness, print out a “book direct next time”
insert and add it into your check presenters with a link to
your website or QR code to your reservation page.
Send Post-Visit Follow-Up Emails
After a guest dines with you, send a follow-up thank
you email incentive and include a direct link for them to
use the next time they book.
Promote (or Create) a Loyalty Program
for Your Restaurant
Encourage your guests to sign up for your loyalty program
— both at your restaurant or via email. Always include your
direct booking link when promoting special offers and
perks.
Turn Off Marketplace Inventory During Peak
Hours and Days
During your busiest shifts and days of the week, reduce
or turn off your marketplace listing inventory and leverage
direct channels to save money.
Direct booking channels give you complete control over your brand and the guest experience. And because marketplace
reservations also cost you money, it’s essential to transition these guests to book directly through your website.
Introducing the Omnichannel Strategy
How to Transition Customers to Book Direct
19
Once you’ve established a loyal customer base and BIG SPENDER
implemented an omnichannel strategy to drive new
business, you’ll likely want to decrease your marketplace
inventory and only list reservations on the slowest
days and times. You may even want to stop using
marketplaces altogether.
If you decide a marketplace is no longer the best option
for your business, consider a direct reservation platform.
Direct reservation platforms, such as SevenRooms,
integrate with Reserve with Google and allow you to
take ownership of your brand and guest data. We’ve
seen restaurants save thousands of dollars a year in
cover fees by switching from third-party reservation
apps to direct.
The Power of Switching to a
Direct Reservation Platform
Introducing the Omnichannel Strategy
FRIEND OF CHEF
CABERNET SAUVIGNON
20
$76K
Saved in Third-Party Fees
Altamarea Group operates 15 venues across the U.S., Istanbul and Dubai. After years of paying expensive cover
fees, Altamarea Group switched to SevenRooms’ reservation platform to take advantage of direct bookings. They
immediately reduced their third-party cover fees by 50%. Then, to capitalize on the Covid-induced takeout boom
in 2020, they added delivery and takeout options for customers at their flagship, Marea. Utilizing SevenRooms’
direct, commission-free reservation booking and online ordering tools in tandem, the restaurant saved over
$76,000 in third-party fees in 2021 alone.*
$340K
Reservation Revenue
$60K
Online Ordering Revenue
/ SUCCESS STORY
READ THE CASE STUDY
*Estimate based on average 30% commission fees and $1 cover fees charged by third-party channels.
21
Conclusion
No one knows what restaurant discovery will look like 20 years from now, but one thing is certain: restaurants
that continuously adapt and evolve according to consumer and industry trends will be the most successful.
Leveraging an omnichannel strategy offers a diversified and integrated approach to testing the market
to find out which channels work best for your business and customers. If your only channel is a
marketplace, you may never find out.
If you’re interested in transitioning from third-party booking apps to direct solutions, book a demo
with SevenRooms. Our all-in-one solution can help you build a successful omnichannel strategy.