<!--ADULTSONLY-->
<meta http-equiv="pics-label" content='(pics-1.1 "http://www.icra.org/ratingsv02.html" l gen true for "http://asstr.org" r (cz 1 la 1 lb 1 lc 1 na 1 nb 1 nc 1 nd 1 ne 1 nf 1 ng 1 nh 1 ni 1 oa 1 ob 1 oc 1 of 1 og 1 oh 1 va 1 vb 1 vc 1 vd 1 ve 1 vf 1 vg 1 vh 1 vi 1 vj 1 vk 1) "http://www.rsac.org/ratingsv01.html" l gen true for "http://asstr.org" r (n 4 s 4 v 4 l 4))' />
<SCRIPT LANGUAGE=JavaScript SRC=/scripts/common.js></script>
<SCRIPT LANGUAGE=JavaScript SRC=/scripts/scroller2.js></script>
<SCRIPT Language="Javascript">
<!--
runScroller();
//-->
</SCRIPT>
<pre>


Warning, if you working a Restaurant you might not want to read this 
story. Also, if you're not into gangbangs, incest, and the idea of a 
pubescent girl being knocked up by her father, don't read this. It's a 
bit twisted, but possibly not the worst thing I've written.


The Restaurant  

By 

Adiemus Bacchante

The family vacation had gone well so far. Despite the long car ride, 
despite the fidgety kids in the back, despite the problems with the out 
of date maps they were given, and despite the various troubles a family 
of four often has when traveling from one coast to the other to stay 
for a few weeks in a distant city, no one had been left by the roadside 
in a burlap sack, so overall, things had gone fairly well.

Thus, as they finally came off the highway, and John at last pulled the 
family's aging station wagon into the parking lot of the promisingly 
named, "Ravensmoor Family Restaurant" at a little after 8pm neither he, 
nor his wife Margo suspected that it would be anything other than 
another typical family dinner. 

Waking up their daughter Amy, who at eleven was already developing 
breasts, much to her mother's annoyance and concern, and mostly getting 
the attention of their portable video game playing son Mike, the family 
quickly made their weary way into the restaurant with thankfully little 
argument from their exhausted children.

The Ravensmoor Family Restaurant turned out to be fairly spacious but 
divided into sections by large fish tanks, many of which lined the 
backs of curving booth seats and some that formed pillars but did more 
to attract the eye than to keep the ceiling up. The walls were mostly 
made of dark wood and the establishment had that certain feeling in the 
air that old buildings from before the turn of the century always had. 
Almost as though the weight of so many memories in the air were forming 
a fog in the air, only perceivable by some sense other than sight. 

The hostess, a tall woman with short black hair that smiled almost too 
much lead the family after only a moment's waiting to somewhere near 
the back of the restaurant. There they settled in to a curving booth 
seat, it's well-worn cushions a dark purple colour, the old wooden 
table it came with worn and scratched, but still quite sturdy.

A small commotion ensued after the hostess left as Mike and Amy fought 
over who would sit on the end, and who'd get the seat in the middle. 
Eventually, though, John decided that both children would sit at the 
ends, with their parents trapped in the middle between them. Somehow, 
it just seemed better than having the two stuck together, unable to 
leave the table and wedged between both parents. 

As promised, their waitress arrived shortly after the seating 
arrangements were renegotiated. Although also somewhat tall, the 
waitresses long dark hair, deep blue eyes and pleasantly formed bosom 
made her quite the distraction for John as she smiled and inquired 
about drinks.

Doing his best not to stare, the man glanced at his children, not 
noticing as their waitress, her nametag stating her name as "Nancy", 
did the same. Her dark blue eyes scanning across Amy's soft, round 
features, the little brunette's hair tied in a pair of long braids that 
went well with the somewhat oversized glasses she wore. The loose-
fitting t-shirt the youngster wore disguising any hint of her 
developing bosom. 

John did, however, notice that Mike had finally set down his toy, the 
thirteen-year-old staring rather openly at the waitress as she glanced 
at Margo and nodded, smiling as she wrote down the order. Chuckling 
softly, he gave his son's foot a quick tap to snap him out of it, the 
man quietly envying the teenager's ability to get away from staring 
openly at the young woman who was probably only a few years past being 
a teenager herself.

As Nancy left, she glanced askance at Amy again, the girl leaning 
forward across the table to grab a sugar packet which she then promptly 
threw at her brother as she watched the waitresses round bottom sway 
back towards the kitchen. Nancy's eyes, however, were Amy's legs. The 
child still in a pair of rather revealing white shorts, her young legs 
bent as she sat on her shins and laughed at her brother over Margo's 
protests for them both to settle down.

Suppressing a shiver, the woman paused at the work station, her now 
shaking hands slowly lifting tall purple plastic drinking glasses from 
the stack, her gaze continually moving in Amy's direction. Setting the 
first one up on the fountain drink dispenser and hitting the button, 
the woman swallowed hard as Amy's bottom lifted in the air for a 
moment. Its perfect roundness causing Nancy's pulse to quicken, her 
skin tingling with desire, her mouth suddenly watering despite not 
being the slightest bit hungry.

Later, during her interviews with both the police and with reporters, 
the young woman would claim to have no memory of the incident. Infact, 
she would later remark it as strange that she had found herself 
attracted to Amy at all. Nancy had, up until that point, not shown the 
slightest interest in women, and was even engaged to be married to a 
man. This, however, did nothing to stop what happened then.

Ignoring the family's drinks, leaving one of the cups half-full, the 
waitress all but marched back through the crowded dining room, ignoring 
the jumbled cacophony of conversations and all but making a bee line to 
their table. 

As she approached, Nancy found Amy out of her seat. The formerly sleepy 
girl now standing, bent over the wooden table, her ass in the air as 
she pointed out things on the map John and Margo had spread out across 
the table. As Amy turned to argue with her brother about some landmark, 
the waitress made a move that would change her life and the lives of 
those in Amy's family forever. Without a moment's hesitation, both the 
young woman's hands reached out and cupped the perfect roundness of the 
eleven-year-old girl's ass.

As Nancy squeezed the twin globes firmly, the woman letting out a soft 
sigh of satisfaction, her blissful smile turning into a hungry grin, 
Amy let out a soft gasp of surprise. It wasn't, however, until the 
young waitress reached around and grabbed the waistband of Amy's shorts 
and started pulling them down the little girl's suddenly kicking legs 
that the rest of the family noticed something was amiss.

Looking back over her shoulder, Amy's green eyes went wide, her little 
mouth forming a cute little "O" of surprise as she saw the look in 
Nancy's eyes. The waitresses expression was one of pure lust, the woman 
dragging her tongue slowly across her lips as she fought to pull down 
both Amy's shorts and the cute little white and multi-coloured polka-
dot panties that she wore.

"Wha-? S-Stop!" the little girl managed, her cry of protest causing all 
conversation at the table to immediately cease, Amy's family staring at 
what Nancy was doing in stunned disbelief. 

As the family looked on in a mixture of surreal horror and amazement, 
Nancy pulled Amy's shorts and panties down past the squirming pre-
teen's knees and past her worn running shoes. Barely taking time to 
drop them, the grinning woman gripped Amy's small ass and squeezed it 
again, spreading the cheeks wide apart before sliding an index finger 
down between them.

Leaning down across the child's small body, the woman chuckled to 
herself as she giving Amy's earlobe a bit of a nibble. "Do you like 
that?" she inquired teasingly, the waitresses index finger now pressed 
against the tiny bud of Amy's tight little anal entrance, making slow, 
tight circles against it.

The only sound the little girl let out was a soft whimper as the 
conversations around the table began to quiet, the clinking of cutlery 
giving way to silence, a dozen other miscellaneous sounds dying out 
slowly as all eyes turned to the booth seat. 

While some stood on in horror, others watched with amazement and still 
others with bemused interest, Nancy ran the tip of her tongue along the 
curve of little Amy's earlobe. "I want you," the woman whispered into 
the child's ear, her other hand slipping under the girl, her fingers 
working their way slowly across smooth, hairless, soft skin above Amy's 
pussy, "You will be mine!"

The waitresses words seemed to hold some higher authority to them, and 
Amy immediately stopped squirming, the electric, tingly sensations the 
woman's hands and lips and tongue were sending through the child were 
just to much to resist anyway. With a quiet whimper that seemed to echo 
through the entire restaurant, little Amy gripped the edge of the table 
in both hands and pushed back against Nancy.

As one, the two moved back just enough to allow a more comfortable 
position, with the little eleven-year-old girl bent over the table, her 
mouth hanging open, panting as her wide eyes stared down at the map. 
Behind her, Nancy's finger continued to make small circles against her 
bud, the tip of it teasingly pushing forward now and then as the index 
finger of the woman's other hand slid past the girl's clit, teasingly 
avoiding the tiny nub as the waitress made lazy circuits of the area.

"What- What the fuck do you think- Think you- You're doing?!" John 
managed at last, stammering out his words, part of him wanting to stand 
up, but the rest of him knowing that not only did the table prevent it, 
but the huge throbbing erection in his pants wouldn't help the 
situation any.

Nancy looked up from where she gave the back of his daughter's neck 
several deep kisses, causing the child's body to quiver delightfully, 
her skin covered in goosebumps now as Nancy's hand slid across Amy's 
perfect little ass. Without a word, the woman simply chuckled, her eyes 
locked on John's, easily catching the look of forbidden lust deep 
inside them as she licked her way slowly down Amy's neck.

Hearing her father's voice, little Amy lifted her head, her small, 
round face flushed, her pupils dilated as her small body shivered. "D-
Daddy." she managed, the girl gasping, closing her eyes tightly and 
gritting her teeth as she felt Nancy's hands slide over her bottom, 
both of them tracing their way down the short length of Amy's legs as 
the woman leaned forward to kiss the child just above where her bottom 
cheeks met.

Still too stunned to even move, the silent restaurant watched as Nancy 
bent at the knees, her knee-length black skirt sliding up the 
waitresses black stockinged legs as Nancy spread them wide apart, 
kneeling behind the little girl and shamelessly moaning hungrily as the 
woman planted kisses along the backs of the child's perfectly 
developing short legs.

"Mmm. You're delicious!" the waitress purred, her voice the only sound 
other than Amy's whimpering moans, someone having at last alerted the 
kitchen staff.

Without interference from patrons, staff or even parents, Nancy moaned 
hungrily as she coaxed Amy's young legs apart, her hands sliding up and 
down them, squeezing the firm muscles the child's interest in soccer 
had given her, taking the time to enjoy the feel of the silky soft skin 
that covered them. 

"Your mommy and daddy must be sooo proud." the woman cooed as Amy let 
out a helpless yelping cry, the tip of the waitress's tongue sliding up 
the girl's inner thigh, not stopping until it touched the now heated 
outer lips of the eleven-year-old's virgin pussy.

The loud gasp let out by several patrons at seeing this gave the girl's 
mother Margo almost enough of a start to snap her out of the seeming 
horrified trance she'd fallen into. Her mouth working for several 
moments, her body shaking all over with suppressed anger and shock, the 
woman did her best to both stand and shuffle to the side, trying to 
escape the booth.

John, unfortunately, was in the way, the man's protests forgotten as he 
watched Nancy's tongue slide up the tight slit between his daughter's 
tiny pussy, the little girl squirming once again, but this time in 
delight. Paralysed with shock and lust, the man barely noticed his wife 
until she grabbed his arm and dug her nails into his arm.

"John!" she hissed, snapping him out of it just as Amy threw back her 
head, the girl's braids flying out to either side, her glasses sliding 
down her tiny nose, the high-pitched whining moan both painfully cute 
and intensely erotic as Nancy's tongue easily brought the child to 
orgasm. 

"Do something!" Margo begged, the woman's knuckles having gone white, 
tears streaming down her face as she turned back to her child, the girl 
panting heavily, making incoherent sounds as the waitress's finger once 
more played with Amy's tight little asshole, "She- She's you're 
daughter! You- You have to stop this!"

But John could only stand and stare, the man making a muted sound as he 
nodded stiffly, his wife trapped between himself and their son. Their 
son who was staring, unblinking at his sister's pretty face as she 
turned her head to look up at him, Amy's expression full of ecstasy, 
the girl wincing cutely as Nancy's finger pushed against her tight 
netherlips, their wetness allowing the beginnings of an intrusion.

Mike was similarly paralysed, but his hands were hidden beneath the 
table, his shoulders then working slowly as Nancy stood leaned back and 
ordered Amy to turn around and sit up on the table. As the girl lifted 
up, the crowd behind her gasped, some catching a glimpse of the 
shimmering wetness that leaked slowly down the child's inner thigh.

Turning around, Amy blushed deeply, the little girl hiding her face in 
both hands as Nancy stood up and gripped her under the thighs. "On the 
table, I said," the woman ordered, her tone commanding as opposed to 
seductive, the hungry look still in the waitress's eyes.

It didn't take much more than that for Amy to hop up, and the eleven-
year-old offered no resistance as she was laid back across the map on 
the table. Chuckling softly, Nancy ran her hands up and down Amy's 
thighs, this time from the front, her eyes locked on the child's 
perfect legs before bending them at the knees and pushing them down 
against Amy's chest.

"Mmm. your pussy looks sooo yummy!" the woman purred, ignoring the 
gulping, helpless yelp that Margo let out at the words, at the sight of 
her daughter's bare, hairless pussy laid out before what was obviously 
a mad woman.

Without hesitation, Nancy leaned forward, the waitress moaning hungrily 
as she started kissing her way, back and forth down the child's inner 
thighs, occasionally licking and nipping at the skin with her teeth. 
Beneath her, Amy moaned and squirmed helplessly, her eyes wide and 
unfocused as she stared at the ceiling, ignoring the helpless look on 
her mother's face and the looks of now open lust on her father and 
brother's.

"Mmm, there's nothing as sweet as a little, virgin pussy." Nancy 
moaned, her lips kissing the little girl's netherlips before giving 
them a long; slow lick that just brushed Amy's clit.

As the girl arched her back, moaning helplessly, Margo caught her 
daughter's hand in both of hers and held it tightly. "I- I'm sorry, 
baby," the woman whimpered, crying openly, shaking her head, refusing 
to believe that the act before her could be anything but rape, her 
adult mind simply refusing to believe that a child could enjoy sex of 
any kind.

But it wasn't rape from Amy's point of view. As the girl squeezed the 
offered hand instinctively, the moaned louder, feeling Nancy's tongue 
slide over her young little clit, sparking sensations the child didn't 
know were even possible before pushing its way between Amy's pussy lips 
and tasting the girl's juices directly.

Wiggling her ass as she bent over, Nancy just moaned loudly as she felt 
a pair of hands upon it, her mouth now covering Amy's pussy, licking 
and sucking as the child came again, filling the woman's mouth with 
sweat juices. Her fingers gripping Amy's inner thighs more tightly, the 
waitress panted loudly as she felt her skirt rolled up, the black 
stockings she wore rolled down her long legs. Without caring who it 
was, Nancy continued licking and sucking, her lips hungrily wrapping 
around little Amy's clit, sucking hard as she felt a hard cock press 
itself against her own aching, wet netherlips.

Glancing up, John was amazed to see one of the kitchen staff standing 
directly behind the woman who was licking his daughter's pussy to 
orgasm after orgasm pushing his hard cock into the woman's obviously 
tight hole. Without seeming to care, the man in a white kitchen shirt 
and tacky grey and white checked pants gripped the young woman's hips 
and shoved hard.

Wincing and gritting his teeth as the woman moaned and the child 
squealed with delight, the man gave Nancy's ass a stinging slap that 
simply made the waitress moan. "Take that you frigid fucking whore!" he 
yelled angrily, the man now grunting and groaning, straining as he 
shoved more and more of his cock into the woman, "You slut! You- You 
cunt! You- You bitch!"

Grunting louder, his face reddening, his panting heavier, the man 
grinned wickedly. "Yeah! Yeah, that's what you fucking are! A bitch! My 
bitch! I'm fucking you Nancy! Fucking that frigid cunt of yours!"

But Nancy merely moaned at the man's words, the woman lifting her head, 
her pretty face dripping eleven-year-old pussy juice as she panted 
heavily and met Amy's eye. As the man continued for brutally rut her, 
the woman staggered forward, getting as close to Amy as she could, the 
girl staring at her, panting heavily, her expression full of helpless 
lust.

At last, though, their lips met and as Nancy gripped the back of Amy's 
small head, her tongue plunging into the little girl's mouth, finding 
her pre-teen tongue and sharing the sweet taste of pussy with her, the 
man driving his cock into Nancy let out a loud grunting bellow.

Throwing his head back, almost in triumph, the man gave Nancy several 
short thrusts as he blew his load inside of her, filling the woman's 
pussy with his thick, gooey seed. Panting heavily, his hips jerked 
several times as Nancy and Amy whimpered and moaned, their shared kiss 
threatening to break several times, giving poor Margo a glimpse of 
their entwining tongues.

When at last the man pulled his cock free, he gave a short bark of 
laugher and spit on Nancy's ass. "Fucking slut!" he laughed, marching 
proudly back to his stunned coworkers just outside the kitchen doors.

But even as the thick robe of semen that connected cock to cunt broke, 
falling wetly against her now bare leg, Nancy didn't seem to care, or 
even notice that she'd just been had. Despite not being on the pill, 
the woman didn't even seem to notice the warmth of the hot sperm inside 
of her. All that mattered then was Amy and what she wanted from the 
child.

Panting heavily, the woman crawled up onto the table, the other patrons 
shocked out of the their stunned silence were now murmuring quietly. 
Amy's family, however, didn't move. Infact, all that was spoken was 
Margo's quiet plea as Nancy straddled her daughter's face.

"No. please, d- don't do this," the woman begged as Nancy grabbed Amy's 
braids and pulled the child's mouth up to her now dripping pussy, "She, 
she's only eleven!"

But Nancy either didn't hear, or didn't care. With a chuckle, the 
waitress squeezed her inner muscles and a bit of the cook's sticky seed 
oozed out of her pussy. At the sight of the thick, goopy mixture of 
sperm and pussy juice dripping down onto her child's face, Margo let 
out a wailing cry and made a grab for Nancy's wrists.

"Stop it!" the woman sobbed, crying almost incoherently as she gripped 
the waitress's wrists and found her somehow immobile. It was then all 
Margo could do not to faint as Nancy looked her right in eyes and 
grinned, the woman licking her lips as she caught both of Amy's braids 
in one hand and reached up to grab the back of Margo's head.

"Lick me clean, sweetie," the waitress chuckled in a childishly, cutesy 
voice, the woman smiling back at Margo as she took a handful of the 
mother's dark hair and pulled her down, forcing the other woman to 
watch as her daughter licked Nancy's cum soaked pussy lips.

"Mmm, you like that, don't you?" Nancy purred, receiving a moaned reply 
from Amy as gobs of thick, white jism dripped into her young mouth, the 
girl swallowing it hungrily as her mother sobbed uncontrollably. 

Just then, a commotion caught Margo's eye, and hope flared in the 
woman's chest as she saw Mike suddenly rush from his seat. "Y-yes! 
Mikey! Go! Call the police!" his mother begged, hope ringing in her 
tone, but the woman's words became dull sob as the boy stopped at the 
end of the table, staring down, his eyes fixed on his sister's wet, 
naked pussy.

"Fuck this!" the thirteen-year-old announced to the restaurant, a bit 
of laughter, some of it nervous, some not, rising from the crowd as the 
boy struggled impatiently with his belt.

"No! Mikey, nooo!" their mother begged as the boy finally managed to 
get his belt open and yanked down his fly, "She- She's your own 
sister!"

But Mike was beyond caring. His adolescent cock had gotten hard enough 
times just by having little Amy walking around in the shorts she'd been 
wearing, and what he was seeing was just too much. Infact, later on, 
when questioned repeatedly by every adult in sight who seemed to 
believe they had something resembling authority, Mike would state 
simply. "I just couldn't take it any more. Heck, how much of that could 
you take?!"

Ignoring his mother's sobbing, Mike dropped his pants and didn't care 
who caught a glimpse of his now rock hard cock hanging, standing 
straight up, almost proud. Stepping out of his pants, the boy all but 
ran forward and grabbed his sister's thighs. Squeezing them, Mike 
grinned at their feel. He'd first thought of Amy's legs as being hot 
shortly after her eighth birthday, and they'd only developed more since 
then. Infact, it seemed to Mike as though they were just perfect. But 
somehow, not quite as perfect as Amy's tight little virgin pussy. The 
same pussy that he'd dreamed of fucking night after night and at last 
was going to get his chance.

As her son moved forward, angling his cockhead to rest against his 
sister's pussy lips, Margo let out a final sob, knowing that it was 
truly too late now and barely resisting as Nancy's hand pulled her head 
down.

"Come on!" the waitress ordered as Amy let out a long, whining whimper, 
feeling her brother's cockhead pushing against her tight entrance, 
barely working its way past the outer lips, "Lick my cunt too, mommy! 
There's plenty of cum to go around!"

Sobbing Margo caught one last glimpse of her daughter's face, the 
girl's expression contorted by pain as Amy's own big brother forcefully 
shoved his cock forward, the boy grunting as he broke through the 
initial resistance of his sister's hymen and took her virginity. 

Closing her eyes, Margo fought the urge to scream as Amy arched her 
back and let out a long, painful cry. "Moooommmmyyyyy!" the girl 
exclaimed, and the woman refused to accept the mixture of pleasure and 
pain that she heard in Amy's sweet voice as Mike bucked his hips, 
burying another inch into his sister's virgin pussy.

But then it was all too late. There was nothing the woman could do, 
whimpering she gave Margo's pussy a tentative lick, tasting both salty 
semen and the sweet, clear goo of the waitress's cum. The woman then 
whimpered as she felt her daughter's tongue slide across her own, 
Margo's body shaking as she sobbed, unable to resist any longer.

"Oh, fuck, yeah!" laughed Mike, the boy just happy to be fucking, let 
alone to be having a virgin. Let alone his own sister, "Oh! Sh-shit, y-
you're tight, Amy!"

Closing his eyes tightly, the thirteen-year-old didn't notice his 
father slide out from behind the booth, the man gripping the edge of 
his seat, watching intently as his son became a man. "Th-That's it, 
son," John managed, his building lust apparent from the massive bulge 
he sported in his dress pants, his eyes locked on the now pistoning 
cock that was planted halfway in the little girl he'd helped make 
eleven years previous, "Just- Just slow down. Ya, you've got to pace 
yourself!"

Panting heavily, Mike gritted his teeth and nodded, the boy's hands 
leaving Amy's legs and wrapping around Nancy's torso. "Oh, oh fuck, 
dad!" the boy managed as the woman laughed and leaned back against the 
him, letting Mike's awkward hands fumble with the buttons of her white 
blouse, "She- She's so fucking good!"

John had to close his eyes as he made out the sounds of his daughter's 
moaning and groaning, the girl obviously nearing orgasm despite the 
pain she was obviously in. Just like her mother. The man thought with a 
grin, opening his eyes in time to see Mike simply rip open Nancy's 
shirt and lift her bra out of the way, the boy's hands immediately 
gripping the woman's firm, round breasts.

"Fuck yeah!" the boy laughed as all his dreams started coming true at 
once, his hips bucking harder, rutting his sister as he groped the hot 
waitress's bosom, his cock plunging deeper with every stroke until 
finally he threw his head back and let out a long, almost pained cry.

A cheer rang up from the crowd then, mostly from the kitchen staff, as 
the thirteen-year-old boy came inside his eleven-year-old sister, his 
thick, gooey seed shooting up the rest of the way to Amy's young, 
fertile womb as Mike continued pumping her. Even as he strained and 
panted and managed to shove his cock in another precious inch, the 
boy's cock stayed hard, causing his father to smile and the crowd to 
hoot and holler encouragement.

Looking over her shoulder, Nancy grinned broadly and pushed Margo's 
face away without a second's thought, leaving the defeated woman to 
finally pass out, her mind unable to deal with the situation. "That's 
it, stud," the waitress encouraged, bucking her hips against Amy's 
little mouth as Mike leaned against her back, "Fuck that little pussy! 
She's a virgin, you know. It's your responsibility to make her nice and 
loose for the next cock that comes around."

The mere thought of someone taking their turn with his sister after him 
was too much for Mike. With a shout, he slammed his cock into Amy 
harder, the little girl letting out a loud scream as Nancy gripped her 
hands for support, the boy shooting another thick load of baby-making 
cum into his little sister's tight pussy, his balls slamming against 
her perfectly round ass.

"Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! FUCK!!!" the boy exclaimed at the top of his lungs, 
his thrusts short but fast and hard as he squeezed Nancy's breasts 
hard, his fingers twisting and pinching her nipples painfully, Mike's 
spurting adolescent cock draining his balls of every last drop as his 
sister's tight pussy milked them for all they were worth.

Spent and panting hard, the boy staggered back, his cock forcively 
coming free with an audible pop that made the crowd cheer again. 
Staggering backwards, Mike smiled lopsidedly as he noticed only a 
trickle of cum oozing out of Amy's little pussy. Feeling proud, the boy 
sat down at the table across from their booth and gladly accepted the 
beer he was handed. He was a man now, after all. It was his right.

Chuckling darkly, Nancy lifted herself from Amy's face and crawled off 
the girl, the waitress quickly hopping off the table before taking a 
quick bow. The motion met with applause and laughter as the woman 
grinned at the crowd. "Okay, who's next?" she demanded with a grin, her 
eyes glancing over at John meaningfully, the man already fumbling with 
his pants.

"Fuck her! Fuck her! Fuck her!" the crowd chanted as Amy's father gave 
up and just reached in past his fly and whipped out his enormous cock, 
the man gasping as his member slapped down against his daughter soft 
thigh.

"Daddy?" Amy inquired, the girl looking up at him with a weak smile, 
her face covered, glistening with pussy juices, a thick splatter of 
white cum still across the bridge of her nose. 

The image was too much for John. With a primal, almost feral cry, the 
man grabbed his own little daughter's ankles and lifted them, pushing 
them down against Amy's shoulders. Somehow, his cock instinctively 
lined up with her pussy and with a quick shove he entered her, the 
man's cockhead disappearing into the almost crushing tightness of Amy's 
eleven-year-old pussy.

Throwing his head back and howling at the intense sensation, sweat 
pouring off of him, John barely noticed the gasp his daughter let out, 
or the way all the colour drained from Amy's face as his much thicker 
cock stretched the child's pussy.

"Daddyyyyy!" the girl begged, wincing, gritting her teeth as the man 
started thrusting, grunting like an animal, stretching the little 
girl's pussy wider, shoving himself deeper and deeper as Amy screamed, 
"Daddy! It- It hurts! S-Slow down! S-Stop!"

But John was beyond caring. Gritting his teeth, the man all but 
frothing at the mouth, his saliva dripping down onto the child's body, 
he just kept up the quick, hard rutting. "M-Mine!" he grunted, their 
eyes locked, Amy's expression helplessly torn, the pain almost as 
intense as the pleasure as the eleven-year-old felt the head of her 
father's cock press up against the wall of her cervix. 

"MINE!!!" the man yelled, his tone grunting, as primal as the mating 
that was taking place, the normally calm, almost meek man rutting his 
little daughter for all to see, marking his territory, making her his 
bitch no matter who might try and mate with her next.

A respectful silence fell over the crowd then, as John let go of Amy's 
ankles and gripped her shoulders, holding the child in place as he 
pistoned in and out of her, his heavy balls swelling as they swayed. 
"D-Daddy! Daddy!" Amy whimpered, her young little legs slowly wrapping 
around the man's back, holding him close as his hips bucked hard and 
fast, "F-Fuck me! Fuck me daddy! I want you to fuck meeee!!!"

John snarled again and leaned closer, taking his child in his arms and 
holding her close, Amy's arms hugging him back, her tiny fingers 
clawing at his back as she yelped and grunted, the little girl's own 
tone taking on a more feral quality as well. On and on the two lover's 
mated, rutting like animals as the rest of the pack looked on. No 
longer did Amy feel the pain of her father's thick shaft spreading her 
pussy obscenely wide, nor the cockhead pounding against the entrance to 
her woman like a battering ram. 

Now she only feet his hard chest rubbing against her aching nipples 
through their clothes. His wonderful shaft sliding, pulling, probing 
her deepest depths, the buckling of her cervix feeling like a building 
release to Amy. Nothing else mattered; she was her father's mate now. 
She'd give himself fully to him, no matter the consequences.

As their grunting exclamations almost became one, the crowd drew 
cautiously nearer, the two sweating, rutting bodies so close now, the 
thrusting, pistoning of John's cock so shallow, Amy's pussy wrapped so 
tight around it, that it seemed impossible for the two to separate. 

"Fuck man," whispered one of the now giddy with lust onlookers just on 
the edge of John's hearing, "He's really bangin' her! Like some kinda 
animal!" "Heh, yeah," his friend replied, "He's gonna knock the bitch 
up for sure!"

Somewhere, deep down, the human part of John's brain felt a surge of 
panic. The idea of getting his own little eleven-year-old daughter 
pregnant seemed like a terrible thing. But yet, the animal part of his 
brain thought it to be the most perfect, most erotic, most right thing 
in the world! And there was little logic and reason could do at that 
moment to overcome lust. For just then, father and daughter screamed in 
their ecstasy, as Amy's cervix buckled, and John's cock burst into her 
young, unprotected womb.

Feeling the tight ring of Amy's cervix squeeze his cock just below the 
head, it was all John could do to keep up the hard pistoning without 
cumming. Even as his daughter squirmed, her little arms and legs 
thrashing about frantically, Amy's glasses falling off her little round 
face, as the girl screamed in ecstasy, John wanted to keep going. 
Somehow he knew that if he stopped, it'd all be over. That another 
opportunity to mate with his own daughter would never occur again. And 
somehow, the man held back, even as he felt his potent seed rising up 
along his shaft, Amy's tight inner walls squeezing him so badly that it 
made it hard to cum, even if he wanted to.

"S- So- F-Fucking-! Tight!" the man managed as Amy came down, the girl 
whimpering and mewling, her small hands gripping John's shoulders, her 
expression pleading. 

"P-Please, daddy!" Amy begged, the man's sweat dripping down onto her 
as he caught his breath before leaning down to bite and lick his 
daughter's neck, leaving the pale skin red in places, "D-Do it, daddy! 
I wanna feel you goo!"

Panting heavily, John grunted and almost snarled as he bit his 
daughter's ear, causing the child to squeal and squirm as his cockhead 
drove deeper into Amy's womb, his heavy, now tight ball sack slapping 
loudly against her young ass. "B-But I-!" he managed, the man winning 
over the animal just a little, just for a moment, "I might- Get- Get 
you pregnant!"

Gasping at his words, Amy let out a long moan of pure longing, the 
small little girl's body shivering deeply, shaking all over as John 
felt his daughter's pussy grip his cock tighter, the inner walls moving 
rhythmically, milking his shaft as she came again.

When Amy could speak once more, she kissed John full on, their tongues 
entwining for a moment. "Please, daddy," the little girl panted against 
her father's lips, his tongue licking them savagely once more, "D- Do 
it! G- Get me pregnant! I- Want your baby, daddyyyyy!"

Amy came again as she instinctively felt her body give in to the 
natural order. As Johns cock probed her womb again and gain, his precum 
leaking in, filling the small space, a flood of hormones filled his 
daughter's body. All at once, little Amy ovulated, the little girl 
child becoming a woman with her father's cock lodged inside her now 
suddenly fertile womb.

Somehow, perhaps instinctively, perhaps by his daughter's scent, John 
new it the instant it happened. Somehow, he could feel the tiny egg 
enter Amy's womb. Somehow, he knew his once virgin daughter was now 
fertile, ready to be properly bred. That now was the exact moment when 
mating would have its fullest effect.

Thus, with a loud, feral scream of triumph, the man gripped his 
daughter's shoulders and started ramming her hard. Amy could barely 
keep up with him as John snarled and grunted, biting at his daughter's 
neck and shoulders, his pistoning cock suddenly, all at once spurting 
white hot cum into her ripening womb.

Throwing her head back, Amy gave in completely, the girl clawing at her 
father's back as they rutted, as he mated her, as spurt after thick 
spurt of potent cum shot directly into the child's just then fertile 
womb. Again and again the white hot fire of Johns cum shot forth, 
splattering the inner cavity, all but filling with semen just as 
several of Amy's tiny eggs fell from her fallopian tubes.

As the thick mixture of potent semen and fertile ovums met, the two 
lovers howled and moaned in mutual ecstasy, father and daughter knowing 
instinctively that conception was taking place. That Amy was being 
impregnated by her own father, that soon her young womb would be home 
to two if not more babies.

The two collapsed on the table then, both of the spent, unable to go 
on, panting heavily as they were both dimly aware of Nancy hopping up 
onto a table near by and inviting all comers. As the line formed, John 
smiled at Mike. The boy was third in line. If he was anything like his 
father, it'd be he who knocked the waitress up.

For the better part of half and an hour, Nancy lay on her back, her 
legs spread as patrons and staff had their way with her, even a few of 
the female staffers squatting over the woman's face as her pussy was 
filled with cum again and again. By the time the last had had their 
fill, she was unconscious, her pussy no longer dripping, as the outer 
edge of semen had dried, making sure that whatever was inside of her, 
stayed inside of her. She, of course, never found who the father of her 
triplet girls was, although they did have Mike's piercing green eyes.

As for Amy and John, by the time everyone was done with Nancy, they 
were gone, leaving the car behind strangely. Vanished like smoke some 
said, but certainly never to be seen again, the two lovers having given 
themselves to their bestial natures apparently. Perhaps living on the 
fringes of society like animals somewhere. It was hard to say, but in 
the end it was John's sincerest regret that he never got to fuck his 
sister one last time.


The End


Copyright Adiemus Bacchante
Send all correspondences to 
Adiemus@Aussiemail.com.au




































































































































































 













































































































































